# The BehaviorModeling Mode [Experimental]

## Introduction
The **BehaviorModeling** and **DefenseInDepth** modes are experimental features. You can utilize the **BehaviorModeling** mode to gather behavior data of the target workloads over a specified duration. Once the modeling is completed, vArmor will generate an `ArmorProfileModel` object to store the model of the target workloads. 

Subsequently, you can create a policy with the **DefenseInDepth** mode to harden the target workload. vArmor will employ the model stored in the `ArmorProfileModel` object to enforce mandatory access control on the target. The model generated by the **BehaviorModeling** mode can also be used to analyze which built-in rules can be applied to harden the target application.

## Requirements

vArmor currently leverages a built-in BPF tracer and the logging system (currently rsyslog) to capture application behavior.
The requirements of the BehaviorModeling mode as follows.

If you are using [AKS](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/kubernetes-service) with Ubuntu 22.04 LTS or [VKE](https://www.volcengine.com/product/vke), you can skip to the step 4 directly.

1. containerd v1.6.0 and above.
2. BTF (BPF Type Format) must be enabled. 
3. rsyslog must be enabled, and auditd must be disabled. 
4. Execute the following commands on each node of cluster to setting rsyslog.
    ```
    cat >/etc/rsyslog.d/varmor.conf<<EOF
    \$ModLoad omuxsock
    \$OMUxSockSocket /var/run/varmor/audit/omuxsock.sock

    kern.* :omuxsock:;
    EOF
    ```
    ```
    systemctl restart rsyslog.service
    ```
4. Enable the **BehaviorModeling** feature with `--set behaviorModeling.enabled=true`
    ```
    helm upgrade varmor varmor-0.5.11.tgz \
        --namespace varmor --create-namespace \
        --set image.registry="elkeid-cn-beijing.cr.volces.com" \
        --set behaviorModeling.enabled=true
    ```
    
    *Note: The BehaviorModeling feature in vArmor agent requires additional resources.*
    ```
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: 2
        memory: 2Gi
      requests:
        cpu: 500m
        memory: 500Mi
    ```

